I think my overarching point here is
have a point, keep people on task, and
try and
get out of it what you want, right?
However you choose to approach that,
I give you some of my tips and
I'm definitely not every PM.
I'm Brian Holt and
I run my meetings a certain way.
You're gonna have to find
the way that works for you.
But I will say I've seen some very
introverted people, some very meek and
quiet people run awesome meetings, and I'm
not the most extroverted person either.
So don't use that as an excuse
to not own your meetings.
It takes effort, it's hard,
it's straining, but it is work and
those work is all of those things.
So if you have more
difficulties like that,
there's people that do executive presence
training, both online or coaches.
Strongly suggest that if that's something
that feels really difficult to you.
They sent us through one
through my MBA program.
She was awesome.
I think she did legal at Google and
she had tons of useful tips for us.
So executive presence is the thing
that you wanna google for
help with those sorts of things.
Yeah.
>> Quick,
I would pile on in my experience.
I'm very much an introverted individual.
It is very draining for
me to drive these kinds of meetings.
What I have found to be very helpful is,
you mentioned in your style as well,
injecting a bit of humor,
throw a Spongebob meme.
>> [LAUGH]
>> One of my last meetings a couple months
ago, I asked the attendees,
the punchline that I wanted to get out
of them was, what hurts right now?
And I used a meme of a soccer player
getting kicked between the legs
by another soccer player, because I
wanted to spur that conversation,
I wanted to break that ice, I wanted it
to be an open and lively conversation.
I found humor to be a great tool for
helping break down
what often feels to me very stuffy
corporate kind of communication norms.
>> Absolutely, it can put people at ease,
it can open up conversations, it can get
people on more of a peer-to-peer
level rather than at a hierarchy.
Have you ever heard of the HiPPO?
The highest paid person's opinion,
yeah, is usually the thing that wins.
I hate those kind of meetings.
If we're gonna go with the HiPPO opinion,
just don't invite me to a meeting,
just do it.
Just send me an email saying
this is what we're doing, right?
And so humor can be a good way for
getting kind of people on that
kind of more equal playing.
The thing you wanna be cautious of is
sometimes you can distract from your
message, right?
And so I'm just gonna, yes,
seek balance in those kind of things.
And as you can see here, a lot of my
presentations revolve around humor as
well, so it's not something
I always get right either.
>> I think, after all this,
I feel confident, at least,
I can draw on my experience
as a teacher and lecturer.
And having a reputation for
delivering information in
a consistently understandable way,
in a well-defined time,
is a great way to get people to
show up to your next meeting.
You are your own product in many ways, and
some people can get away
with being humorous.
Some people,
the same joke is gonna fall flat, but
people are really showing up for
you and for how you work.
And the audience will
give you a lot of room,
at least in my experience,
if you are meeting the basic benchmarks.
People want their time not wasted,
if you can do that.
And a lot of that is preparation,
knowing who your audience is going to be.
Things like that,
it was very effective in my career, and
I agree, there's a need for
you to be there in a genuine way, and
after that,
the conversations get a lot easier.
>> Yeah, totally agree, well said.
It's probably something that
I am skimming over here.
And it probably bears mentioning, I hadn't
really thought about too much in context
of presenting this, is like, I've done so
much public speaking that getting in front
of a lot of people just is not something
that is concerning to me anymore.
It used to be, right?
Like I said, you can go watch my first
talk on YouTube at Fluent Conf 2013 or
something like that.
I think I talked about the podcast,
The Frontend Masters podcast, that is.
I am literally shaking in my
first public speaking appearance.
And now I've done it so
many times that you can put me in
front of 1,000 people right now.
In fact, I don't know how many
people are watching right now, but
it might be that much.
Does not bother me.
And I understand that
that's fairly unique.
A lot of people don't have that
sort of experience to draw upon.
So something to keep in mind, if you
are in that boat where getting in front of
people is hard for you,
most people are generally on your side.
Most people generally
want you to do well and
they generally want you to deliver
your message in whatever way
you're choosing to do so, and
they are rooting for you in that capacity.
The rest of those people don't care,
[LAUGH] right, and
they're just generally
not thinking about it.
And they've been to so many meetings
that if your meeting doesn't go the way
that you planned, probably not
gonna think about it after that.
And then the few people at
the end that are malicious and
are trying to mess with you,
F them, right?
Who cares about people like that, right?.
And so kinda having that framing for
me helped kind of eliminate a lot of that
public speaking pressure that
I was putting on myself.
I was like, you know what, I'm trying to
speak to the people that are trying to
engage with me, that helped a lot.
And then the other thing I'll say here
is everything that I talked about here,
agendas, coming up with a decision made,
timeboxing,
that sort of preparation will
give you confidence, right?
And so if you are going into these
kinds of meetings feeling uneasy or
scared about it, having a kind of a script
of how that meeting is supposed to go.
Even if you go off the trail there,
having all that preparation and
feeling like you have done 100% of
the prep to talk about 5% of it,
it's gonna launch you from a place of
power, which will give you confidence.
And I'll see the last thing in here, and
I probably should have put this in here
as well, having a plant helps as well.
Going in there with a coworker and saying,
hey, here's all the stuff I wanna talk
about, can you answer these questions?
Can you make these comments?
Can you kind of help the meeting along?
Can you help me silence
people that are derailing us?
That meeting where I was talking about
where I go monthly for that big meeting,
I always had at least a plant
from multiple different teams and
usually change two at once.
An easy way to get a plant in
your meetings is to have someone.
Talk to them beforehand,
show them the slide deck, like, okay,
I need somebody to take notes, right?
Cuz you generally don't wanna be the note
taker when you're the one presenting.
That's a really good way,
is like, hey, person taking notes,
can you recap of what just
happened there or something that?
And then you can kind of prompt
them to help you as well.
So yeah, hopefully that helps.
And it's just practice
at the end of the day.
After you start doing it
to a lot of people enough,
you eventually just get confident with it.
The last thing I was gonna say is,
especially
when they're important meetings, talking
to all of the stakeholders beforehand and
getting like, hey, we're gonna talk
about this, what do you think about it?
And getting their opinions
before you get in that room will
give you a lot of confidence,
because then there's no surprises.
That'll help as well.
It also will help you drive your agenda.
Again, talking about those big
meetings that I used to go to,
I knew every person's opinion before I got
in that room, except sometimes the vice
president because I couldn't get
to him cuz he was busy, right?
Everybody else's opinion,
I knew exactly what they were
gonna say when we went in there.